Rest API for Plant Database

During my internship we focus on the development of Back-End. One of the main areas of developing Back-End is the creating APIs. The problem was the create a Restful API that can handle user search, update, delete, create request for the specific database. For the implementation I use plant database. Then there have to be user interaction that can login and if ensure the authorization can access the request from database. Furthermore, there has to be log files that store the statistics about requests and which user request which information. At the end there should be Apache Kafka producer and consumer, whenever user request information all of the data about request stored and consumed by Kafka partitions. Successful project consists of a Restful API that can handle all requests from users, to be able to record user requests and statistics in a complete and accurate log file an Apache Kafka system that can run and send and save data.

Tools and Techniques Used

I have chosen Java for this project. In Back-End, Telenity also uses Java this is one of the reasons, my Supervisor advise me to use Java while creating Restful API. I use Java because, it is object-oriented language that ensure the communication between classes. Java also have multithreading, this is important for me to while running Rest API, I can collect statistics in terms of how many requests come in minutes, hours and so on. Java also have important frameworks. While I am creating Rest API, I have used Spring Framework. Java is distributed, this ensures that it can be used for networks. Java's client/server design
provides that data is being sent to or being received from a file. Java is easier to program in than other traditional languages for network-based applications. Also, ensuring the connection with Apache Kafka is relatively easy in Kafka. With using Maven and application properties, I can easily connect the database and my application and ensure important plugins for my project.

I have used Spring framework and its packages. Spring framework includes variety of Hibernate, JDBC, and Java Persistence API (JPA) template types. With these I can ensure data transactions, database connection, port connections without writing complex codes. With its controller package I can easily maintain user requests. Spring also provides useful tools for logging, authentication etc. Furthermore, it provides different libraries that you can easily integrate with your code using pom.xml file.


I have used object-oriented programming. This is one of the reasons why I have used Java in my project. With advantage of object-oriented programming, I can easily find my mistakes. I can read the error message and fix my code accordingly by identifying the class. For instance while I was building authenticator for my Rest API, the program run with any problem but when I was in sign-in part I cannot handle request and as I was building authentication I immediately understand because of the authentication part I am getting error. Another reason is that inheritance. I can use the classes in other classes easily by calling it in my code. For instance, I wrote the Statistics class where I collect all the data about requests and easily call in the controller class where I can handle the requests. I also use multi-threading, I have to collect the data every minute, without doing it in threading I cannot collect the data for every time instance. I have used relational database design. The relational database structure is very advantageous in terms of facilitating data access and more organized data storage. Furthermore, it is easier to change data structure while modifying the entities.
